Lab 2 – Simple UNIX Shell 
Name: Qian Qiu 
Student Number: 100913856 
Course: SOFE3950U Operating Systems

Files:
myshell.c   : main shell loop, parsing, execution
utility.c  : internal commands and helpers
myshell.h  : shared definitions
makefile   : builds shell with `make`
readme     : documentation

Features:
- Internal commands: cd, clr, dir, environ, echo, help, pause, quit
- External command execution via fork/exec
- I/O redirection: <, >, >>
- Background execution with &
- Batch mode: ./myshell batchfile
- Environment variables: shell, parent

Introduction:
This lab is a simple UNIX command line shell that provides a basic interface between the user and the operating system.It allows users to execute built-in shell commands as well as external UNIX programs. 
The shell supports input/output redirection, background execution, and batch file processing.

How to start the shell:
Once you place the system in a folder, navigate to that folder in your command prompt, then: The shell can be started in two different modes
1. Interactive Mode Run the shell without arguments:
./myshell
The shell will display a prompt showing the current working directory and wait for user input.

2. Batch Mode Run the shell with a batch file:
./myshell batchfile
The batch file must contain one command per line. The shell will execute each command sequentially and automatically terminate when the end of the file is reached.

Internal Commands:
The following commands are built into myshell and are executed directly by the shell.
- cd Changes the current working directory.
- clr Clears the terminal screen.
- dir Lists the contents of the specified directory.
- environ Displays all environment variables available to the shell.
- echo Displays the provided comment followed by a newline.
- help Displays this user manual using the more filter, allowing the user to scroll through the documentation.
- pause Pauses the shell until the user presses the Enter key.
- quit Terminates the shell.

I/O redirections:
Input Redirection (<) Redirects standard input from a file:
program < inputfile

Output Redirection (>) Redirects standard output to a file. If the file exists, it is overwritten:
program > outputfile

Append Output Redirection (>>) Appends standard output to a file. If the file does not exist, it is created:
program >> outputfile

Background executions:
A command followed by an ampersand (&) will execute in the background. This allows the shell to return immediately to the prompt without waiting for the command to finish.
Example:
sleep 10 &
Background execution is supported only for external commands. Internal commands do not support background execution.
